Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Linda come out. She's
the lead developer at OSHA
Haiti, and one of the
cofounders at Akira chicks. And
she's talking to me from
Nairobi, Kenya. How are you?
Hi, how are you doing?
I'm great. I'm glad to
talk to you. I saw
you just a few weeks
ago and, and now with
the power of the internet,
we're having an interview that,
that I promised you that
we do. And I appreciate
you taking the time out
of your busy morning. No
worries. I'm happy to do
it. Cool. So you are
the lead developer at OSHA
Haiti, and you've been there
for quite a few years,
haven't you? Yeah, I have
actually turned seven in a
couple of weeks actually by
April 1st. Yeah. Yeah. Congratulations. Thank
you. Did you, did you
get that job out of
school or how did you
end up at ? So
I was actually a volunteer
at Trisha Haiti when it
started in 2000 back in
2008, actually I say volunteering
it's seven eat. And that,
at that time I was
working, I was an intern
at an, at an organization
where we were just doing
web development. So just building
websites. And then after I,
at the same time, when
I was in that organization,
I was still doing my
undergraduate degree. And so after
graduating, I moved jobs and
Cora a junior developer position
in a company where we're
doing, we were building mobile
money application and biscuit competitor
for M-Pesa. And I didn't
even last there for long
because I was still contributing
to shady on my spare
time. And so that's when
shady poached me, Eric poached
me and got me to
join shady in 2010. Yeah.
That's Eric heard people who
started off OSHA, OSHA Haiti
mean Shady means testimony or
witnessing it's a Swahili word.
And so they gave basically
the citizen or the crowd
being able to report what
they're seeing based on a
scenario. For instance, during an
election, people being able to
send in SMS is saying
either one they've gone, they've
gone to their polling station
and found that either there
are no ballot boxes or
the petition is not opened.
So basically giving the crowd
the power to actually report
what they see that and
relying on mainstream journalism. Wow.
That sounds like something that
would be useful, not just
in Kenya or other countries
using it. Yeah. We have
a, we actually, we we've
deployed the platform in more
than I think a hundred
countries now. And it's translated,
it's translated into about 50
languages are different languages because
of our different places like
French and opportunities and such
kind. And so it's useful
and it's been used for
different things. For instance, I
lectured mapping the crisis in
Syria reporting on, I mean,
simple things like mapping out
the bugger places in Atlanta,
the best burger places, like
find things like Louis. And
then even just, I think
also for people who are
doing schools have used it
to actually be able to
teach students on the power
of processing and tools like
that, that are being used
to give, to make people
raise their voices. So yeah,
it's been used in like
all manners of scenarios, but
I think the main one
is mainly crisis and electrons.
Those are the two main
areas that we've seen the,
it being mostly used. Like
right now. I think you've
seen a deployment of people
trying to map out the
drought, the drought that is
in Somalia. And that's about
to turn into actually a
farming and even like the
crisis in Syria, that one
is still running till now.
It's the longest running deployment
of Shahidi. I mean, I
think Syria has been going
on for a very long
time. So yeah, those are
the kind of use cases
that you've seen come up.
Wow. It seems to me,
just from a historical perspective,
it's one of the first
really successful examples of crowdsourcing.
Isn't it getting, getting lots
of incredibly valuable data into
one place from the power
of the crowd? Yes, yes,
actually. And I think that's
why it's been used really
widely cause it's very easy
to just get information from
people from just the basic
thing that everybody has a
mobile phone, where they just
send an SMS and they
can be able to actually
contribute to let's say election
or a crisis. So just,
I think using with the
power that everybody has, it
is basically the, the handset
respect, whether it's a smartphone
or a feature phone, you
know, like I think that's
how it, that's why it
has been one of the
most successful because you don't
get people to go looking
for other tools to be
able to like use it.
How do the feature phone
people talk to Shahidi with
SMS? Is it a structured
text message? Do they know
how to send commands or
do you have to parse
it? Somehow? Most of the
times we ask people to
go ahead and like we
w when we're doing an
election, we have to look
for instance, in Kenya, the
coming election is in August.
So what would be, what
we've been doing is trying
to get people. We communicate
a lot of marketing by
communicating to protect them. If
you're going to send an
SMS, make sure it has
a location or where you
are at and disclose their
message. So we tell people
just to say like, Oh,
the position is not open
incubator. So you don't just
say position is not open.
Just say polling station is
open in Kibera, but we
do. We still do receive
people who just say ,
so what you've done, then
a message threading behind the,
the platform. And so we
are able to actually have
a conversation with the people
behind suppose you have administrators
who are receiving the raw
data in translate, translating that
into posts. So the people
who are doing that, they
actually go head back and
forth with the person and
go like, so where are
you reporting out? And they'll
say Kibera, or say Kibera
irony. And so they are
able to map out and
see that that's Kibera irony,
and actually put an, be
able to put, decide at
posts with, with a map
on it, with a marker
on it, on them up.
Oh, wow. Yeah. That sounds
like an opportunity for some
kind of a bot framework.
Right now you say you
have a human talking sometimes
to them to get more
detail, you could teach it
bot. Yeah, I think that's,
that's one of the things
that we've been thinking about
for a longest time ever.
I think resource wise has
been constrained, but I think
it's one of the things
that we are hoping with
time. We can actually just
figure out and be able
to come up with yeah.
A that can actually help
us figure that out. Cause
it's really like, like it's
really time consuming. And also
you have to have a
lot of, we have to
recruit volunteers like for the
Kenyan election right now we
started recruiting volunteers and such
training them on how to
like do the whole mapping
of reports and or posts.
And that means that we
will have to incur cost
of the fact that during
that day of the election,
you have to host them
like in a space in
a city, what you call
the situation room. You have
to make sure there's food,
there's all that stuff. So
it's more like it's actually
becomes a whole activity because
I think as they always
say, tech is 10%, humans
is 90%. I think we
really have the 90% alert.
Yeah. Sounds like it. Well,
how about after we're done
on the podcast, I'll try
to connect you to the
people who use the Microsoft
bot framework. Maybe they can
help you do that work
without you having to write
that part. Oh yeah. That
would be great. All right.
Cool. So you are the
lead dev now at OSHA
Haiti. And when you started,
you said that you were
kind of a junior developer.
Now you're a senior, you're
the boss you, the boss
have. Yes. I mean, the
fact that I've been here
a long time and I
mean, I've seen, we've worked
on version two of our
platform. That's after the first
one, the first, the first
one was basically the legacy
one was mainly actually on
ESP.  actually vb.net. And
so when we transitioned to
a PHP and that was
our version two, which is
what as been running for
the longest time ever. But
I led that one. And
then after that started building,
I only version, which is
the version three of the
platform. And so still part
of it. And then at
the same time I took
a step. Like I, I
kinda stayed, I'm done working
on platform. I need something
else new. And so sorry,
I'm working on a new,
on a new product that
we're doing. It's called roll
call. And it's basically a
checking tool during emergencies. So
that's what I been leading
now and still working with
the plant with the rest
of the devs on the
platform team. So yeah. Okay.
So OSHA Hedy has the
Crowdmap product and the older
Swift river, and now one
called roll call. So Swift
river actually is legacy. We
are no longer working on
it or supporting it. I
think it's anyone who just
gets it. They can go
ahead and work on it.
And then Crowdmap, you're sunsetting
Crowdmap because with a new
platform, we are moving to
it's, we're moving everything. That's
on, Crowdmap into the new
platform, the V3 one, which
is  IO. So we
are also going to be
sunsetting Crowdmap and now it
will be, which I hated
at IO because it's a
new, it's newer and there's
not so much support of
the old one we to
which trauma is on vitro.
So we are transitioning everyone
into B three. Nice. Okay.
So you're, you've really, you've
really gone from building, if
I may, an app to
now a platform and this
platform is what everything else,
that's the future of your,
of your whole system. Yes,
exactly. Very cool. And then
roll call. People can look@itatrollcall.io.
And this is for like,
you know, people checking in,
did they land safely? Are
they okay? Is everyone okay
in an emergency? Yes, exactly.
And I think one of
the biggest use cases that
we've seen from Bronco or
the people who have been
asking for it to actually
embassies, because being able to
like check on their people
when something happens, lecturing, Westcott
here in, when it happened,
when roll call was born,
things are born out of
crisis. And so yeah, when
you ask it happened, that's
when roll call was born.
And I think for, for
us, we remember the Swedish
embassy going, like, it'd be
really nice to have something
like this when it happened,
because it was very hard
to tell with our people,
we're actually like a West
kid. So to be nice,
if we could have sent
a blast message instead of
like sending emails, cause not
everybody reads emails on their
phones, emails, most people actually
end up reading them on
their computers. And especially on
a weekend, people actually own
just on their phone. So
to not be nice if
they could have sent a
blast and just checked on
anyone, everyone, and being, be
able to at least account
for most of the Swedish
people. And so from that,
we realized actually, it's, it's
the people who need action.
People who are really working
with bigger groups of people
and in, in, in crisis
prone countries like the UN
working in Somalia and in
the different places where the
environment is volatile. So yeah.
So roll call was born
out of that end. Currently,
actually we are doing our
tests without some flustered and
getting more feedback cause we've
just put out the alpha
and then based on that,
then we should be able
to actually roll out if
possibly in the media, meet
the beta, meet, meet this
year with some users. And
yeah, so roll call is
more a paid paid application
or platform actually. And so,
so it's not more on
the free version. Like the
platform is, so platform is
both free and we have
a SAS model, but we
can actually download any song
from yourself, but we haven't
done that for roll call
dev and open source TTL.
We will with time. But
I think we're just starting
out with people who can
actually clients who can actually
just go ahead and pay
up for it. So the
way we actually built both
roll call and platform, we're
trying to use the same
stock. And so currently we
can actually switch developers from
any of the two different
platforms. So you can, a
developer can be in roll
call the next two weeks
and conversion platform. The next
they are the next two
weeks like that, like that.
Cause at least we are
trying to making sure that
we have the same stack
when, when building their platforms.
That's, that's actually a really
good opportunity for us to
pivot the conversation because you
wanted to tell me kind
of how you, how you
came up in, in software
and how you kind of
learned software became a developer
and you just described, you
know, not just the growing
up of your stack, but
the way that you grew
as a software architect, like
you've now helped build and
architect a stack that many
people can use. People can
be easily migrated from one
product to the other. You
know, that's not, that's not
junior developer stuff. You learned
that with your coworkers and
your teammates over the last,
you know, almost decade of
writing software, that's being used
by, I don't know, millions
of people. How did this
all start? Where did you,
where did you start in
software? I actually started in
high school. So when I
was in high school, when
we joined what we call
form one here, which is,
I think grid, I'm not
sure there's nine or something,
but so the, when you
join form one, the school
I went to boarding school.
And so there were computers,
but there were those old
computers, people just use the
computer room to just learn
typing tutor, like just be
able to learn typing tutor.
But by the time it
was from two, they had
a new computer lab and
they had put up new
new computers. And so we
actually did have classes that
we used to go in
on computers. And so it
got, I got interested cause
it was, I really loved
the fact that like the
teacher would show us some
code and I'm like, that's
interesting that doesn't sound like
English. Neither does it sound
like it's really neither does
it sound like my mother
tag, but I think I'm
interested in learning. Like it
really like the numbers and
the whole logic thinking really
intrigued me and I, as,
as me, I'm actually, I
love, I really love mathematics
and physics. So having another
thing on top of each
course, I was really happy
about it. So in school
we used to choose the
subjects we do when you
get to form two and
nobody used to choose computers
like anyone who you to
computers was because when they
were pushed out of the
other subjects by the teachers.
And so they had no
option, but to just take
computers, cause people used to
go like, it's hard, it's
hard, it's hard. And it's
actually girls it's even worse
because we have this mission
that it's it's, it's something
hard. It's, it's a man's
world. So we, people never
actually used to take it
up. I actually signed up
for the competing club and
the computing subjects and the
teachers were like, what you
could, you know, you could
actually Excel in commerce. And
I'm like, no, I think
I want to do commerce
business is not my thing.
When it comes to that,
like I will do business
with just pass the exam
and that's it. So I
took up computers and informed
to actually I was busy
doing projects for the phone
force. The guys who are
like to wait two years
ahead of me when they
were doing their final projects,
they'll come and I'll hit
them out. Well, I'd get
like, you know, these kids,
you know, you know, getting
these kids in school was
hard. So at least I
could get whiskeys or someone
would offer to do my
laundry because I've done their,
their code or worked on
their project. And so that's,
my interest was fiscally sparked
in school and I knew
I wanted to do computers
irrespective. And after even coming
out of school and joining
into joining university, they actually,
so we select universities and
the courses that you want
to take up. And then
based on the Ingrid that
you get, the they'll actually
choose who joins what? Because
the cutoff points for each
of them. And so I
was thrown into doing a
bachelor of science, bachelor of
commerce. And I actually refused
to join the school. I
was like, there's no way
I was going to do
bachelor of commerce. I tried
getting them to change it,
to give me a bachelor
of science in computer science.
But they say that the
cut off points are not
admit a cup of cutoff
point actually missed the cutoff
point with just two points.
And so Do you think,
do you think that that
was because of your gender,
that they were pushing you?
Like you said that they
were pushing you at the
beginning and here, here, they're
trying to steer you into
a degree that you don't
want. Yeah. I think I
still think that was the
case. Because even when you
look at still, till today,
when you look at the
enrollments for computer science degrees,
they are more male than
the no male and female.
And it's not that the
female don't actually Excel at
last year's results. The female
are the ones who are
leading, but even by the
time they are giving the
they're giving out the, the
courses they'll push the ladies
to the less in, in
quotes, hard stuff. So they'll
become us and all that.
So they cannot push people.
The David is more on
that side rather than pushing
them on the engineering side.
Do you think that they're
doing this consciously, do you
think the men in the
department are just trying to
cause trouble? Or do you
think that they just don't
understand that? Like they can't
believe how talented women developers
can be? Like, I'm trying
to understand the root of
it. I don't think they
understand that actually women can
actually be real good or
engineers, so it's not done
consciously, but I think they
just, it's just a culture
problem. Actually we'll start there
where most people have believed
that women should be taking
the softer skills, you know,
and men should be the
ones being encouraged to get
into a competing lift. For
instance, at home, when I
was growing up, we were
just doing our family, me
and my brother and my
brother is older than me.
And I'd see him like
try a taxi radio and
try like play around with
it. And I think he'd
fix things when things are
not working. And so I'll
go like, even me, I
can try it and I'm
like, let's work together and
you could try it. You
could see it from my
mom's side that anytime anything
was breaking in the house,
it was my brother to
fix it. I know there's
a time. I was like,
I can also fix it.
So it's basically a culture
problem that people think that
they, women are meant to
be doing this softer skills
than, than the men should
be thrown in the hardest
side. They had a, stuff's
going to engineering and, and,
and computing and all that.
Yeah. When you were doing
your under, when your degree,
your form one through four,
did you didn't you become
tired weren't you just like,
ah, forget it. I'll just
do something else because it
sounds like you fought every
step of the way. Yeah,
I think it's, I think,
I think my, there were
people telling me, well, my
temperament is actually, I'm a
choleric and I do not
give up. There's one thing
I don't do is that
I, I push and push
and I think that spirit
or that kind of the
traits is basically what gets
me going. So even in
school, like I didn't give
up. And in fact, because
of that, then the computer
science, the computer studies teacher
had an interest in me,
the fact that I was
able to write code more,
cause in a normal day
people, cause it was very
hard for portrayed code. The
teacher will actually do three
quarters of the code and
then just tell the person
to finish up. But I
ended up doing even extra
and he would question some
of what he wrote. So
I think he got curious
and he actually ended up
having to go ask the
principal to exclude me from
any extracurricular activities. And I
was in like my last
year, because there's like this
one, this one just needs
to write code. That's all
she just wants. And she
was to concentrate and finish
and get her project and
actually did pass. Cause I
got an a as straight
A's in my computer studies
and that's because he had
seen that I really, really
wanted to do so. And
even after coming into school
before joining like a mainstream
university, I think I just
spend my time going to
the cafe. Cause I didn't
own a computer of myself.
I come from a really
humble background. So that time
my mom was not able
to buy me a computer.
And so I used to
just go like, I, I
I'll I'll, I'll tell her
I'll clean the house and
clean the dishes, but she'll
pay me. And then the
money she pays me is
actually to go to the
cyber. So I'd wake up
very early in the morning
when everyone else is going
to work and school and
I'll clean up and then
get my money just like
a hundred shillings is like,
I dunno, it's like how
much? It's like $1 and
then just go to the
cyber cyber cafe and just
spent like half my day
there with my diskettes. Cause
that time you were using
disgust to store our work
with my disgrace on my
project, I did in school
and just go try, like
improve it and just make
it much better. Cause that's
so that's how I spent
my time actually, before I
actually joined normal uni learning
university. So the, the, the
choices that I had, I
mean, I think my mom
allowed me to just like
be me and not force
me to things. Although her
relatives are the opposite where
my uncle was like, what
is computers? What are you
doing? What is computers? You're
just learning typing. You should
do that. And maybe you
just do something like CPA
and ACC. I was like,
guys, I didn't even do
business in school. Like why
would you want me to
go do business? It's like,
no, no, no. You should
be like, your aunt was
done up to CPA. CPAK
I was like, yeah, Africa
is it's hard and it's
not me. So let's just
be so, but my mom
is a little bit easy
and she was like, I
see what's what's coming from.
And then also my brother,
my brother had just done
a diploma in it and
I think he knew and
saw what was going on.
So he was more of
a support system to me
and telling my mom how
valuable computers were. So I
think I had support at
least from that side. And
that's how I ended up
actually choosing what I did.
And I ended up doing
just drumming in school. Like
there was some other courses,
but not so many. So
I didn't even concentrate on
them. And yeah, by the
time I was actually getting
into my final year and
I had the internship and
was doing an internship and
at the same time doing
my final year isn't even
in class student and then
grew into that into a
junior developer and then finally
good Pottsville shady. So yeah.
So, so what are you
doing to make it easier
for the next women? I
know that we should, Haiti
is one of the things
that you do, but Akira
checks is also something that's
important to you that will
hopefully make the experience for
the next young woman in
Kenya. Not so much, not
so difficult. Yeah. So we
realized, so when I was
working a specified, before I
joined the Shahidi, I was
working with in a company
where we were sharing an
office space with an organization,
another organization. So they're just
two, it companies sharing office
space and my own, my
company, the one we had,
we had several ladies. Yes.
But most of them are
doing design as marketing. So
I was still the one
who was coding. And so
when we had a joint
event with the other company
that our company was this
full of men, like I
think you could count the
number of women. There were
like two or three. And
when you ask them the
why finance. So when we
used to go for lunch,
they used to, and we're
like really ask like what,
what do you guys do?
There was, I think that
most of us were actually
doing marketing or design or
such kind of things until
one day when you had
a joint event and they
came to us side of
the office only to find
us to the black screen.
Cause we were working online
next then. So then like
what you guys are programmers
is like, yeah, we are
actually developers. And I was
like, Oh, so actually people
still do not know that
women can actually be software.
So we're like, okay, how
do we change this whole
I'm thinking that only men
can actually be in the
software world. And so we
started thinking about it and
realize that the problem is,
is farfetched is from when
we are taking careers or
choosing our subjects in school.
So we decided why not
start out doing outreaches in
schools and girls schools and
showing them opportunities that are
there in the, in the
engineering world, in Biscayne STEM,
basically because people do career
fairs in school, but they
used to just bring in
doctors, lawyers, you know, such
the other professions, but nobody
ever brought in anyone in
STEM, in engineering, in March,
in statistics, anything in computing,
nobody ever brought anyone to
just speak to the students
and show them what are
the outcomes, what careers are
there. And so we decided
we'll actually be doing the
outreach ourselves. So we currently
are doing outreaches in, in
Dallas schools and at the
outreach is a little bit
different. It's just not about
talking. We actually do a
hands on trainings. So we
go into their high schools
and tap into their clubs.
So we have all schools
have clubs. So which are
usually about an hour and
a half or 45 minutes.
And so during the clubs,
we have a curriculum that
you've developed where we'll either
train you in Python development,
we'll train you in graphic
design or we do adrenal
programming. So just showing you
what exactly the tech, what
looks like. And with that,
I've been seeing more girls
coming out and actually taking
up courses in computers other
than just going into economics
or law or medicine, medicinal,
SAS kind of things. Yeah.
How do the girls feel
when they show up? Are
they young enough where they
don't feel like it's unusual
for girls to be doing
computers or have they already
at the age, they come
in have been told by
their parents, they shouldn't be
doing computers. So we, when
we worked with the Guzman,
Sarama the age of, let's
say 15 and 16 year
olds. So by then I
think people love excluding, especially
with the way the world
has been changing. So now
people lives with being exposed
to tech in, from lab
computers, to phones, tablets, and
such kind of things. So
they come in knowing that
yeah, those things work, but
most of the times they
are like, they're like, I'm
also sure how that will
work in Australia. My parents
will allow me to actually
venture into that. And so
what we do is actually
just trying, showing them that
you do love playing this
game. Okay, fantastic. Institu, how
to make your own game.
And that, that at least
generates curiosity. And they actually
were like, I can make
my own game and they
have wild ideas. So when
you start showing them, they
can actually turn the ideas
into something. You start seeing
them opening up their minds
and actually being interested. And
at the end of it,
all he was saying, I'm
going to do mechatronics. I'm
going to do second of
things. This being the fact
that you've, you've, you've shown
them that whatever the ideas
are, can be turned into
applications or systems based on
them, just learning and being
able to actually do it
themselves. And so we thought,
yeah, the other biggest problem
is actually the parents, the
parents, especially if your parent
is not up to par
with what's going on in
the, in the industry, like
at least trying to keep
a know what's going on
in the tech industry. Most
parents tend to think that
you need to work hard
to actually become a doctor.
Like being a doctor is
really like prestigious in this
country. Like you viewed like,
yay. But this, it is
hard to do five years
in school. Like in like
six years in universities, I
had thing. So it's prestigious
and parents value that. Like
even when you listen to
parents talking, they're like, Oh
yeah, my, yeah, my daughter
is a doctor. You know?
And that that's, that's like
their pride. Like, they're very
proud of that. But nobody
says, Oh, my daughter is
an engineer is a computer
engineer or a computer server,
a software developer like that's
does, it's not viewed as
something prestigious, but, but he's
part of the book. But
for the parents who are
keeping up with what's, the
changing technology actually do realize
that it's really prestigious being
in the software world. And
we've changed that we've been
trying to change that notion.
Cause like even my mom
now, my mom didn't, they
never used to understand what
I do, but now she
has a problem. She just
calls me, you know, you
should speak to this today.
You should speak to this
person. I'm like, no, the
person who's just have to
liquid talking to all those
kids who want to do
computer science and just tell
them how amazing it is.
So I think with time,
at least we are trying
to change the mindset of
the parents. And I think
that's, that's our biggest problem.
At least those kids know
that competing has a lot
of potential and they can
actually be it. So the
problem now is with the
parents. But I think with
time and as people are
growing and we've seen even
with our kids outreach, cause
we do a kids outreach
and we see parents calling
in us. You guys don't
have anything you're writing for
the kids that really want
to have my kid know
how to program as like,
well, that's good. It was
not so many come back
asking for that. Mainly mainly
it's like, we have to
really struggle to explain to
them why they should go.
But now we're seeing more
parents coming in asking what
can they keep doing? Which
I think is, is, is
that it's a nice way
of changing how things are
done, especially in terms of
choosing careers for children. Do
you think that the existence
of smartphones versus feature phones
and the parents seeing and
using smartphones is part of
the thing that is allowing
them to, to understand like
what software, what software is
like, Oh, this is a
game I like to play
on my, on my little
phone and my now my
child can make this game
too. Yeah. I think that's
contributing alert. And like for
instance, WhatsApp, WhatsApp is revolutionary
in, in here. And so
when you try to explain
to a point like, actually
that, that one, you don't
load it. I didn't come
with a phone. That means
someone actually believes that. And
then now you installed in
you're using it. So that
being able to understand that
actually people a building, these
are young people, they are
not like, whatever, like crazy
people like the guys at
NASA or something like that.
So he's actually just normal
person like me. And you
can actually just write code
and come up with an
application that makes every communication
very easy. And especially in
the side of this era.
So like it's quite, I
think that's the internet, the
fact that there's a lot
of changing things in the
technology industry, it's actually giving
them hope that, Hey, my
kid could actually be a
computer scientist, so yeah. And
giving them that option. So
Yeah. So as, as we
close our conversation, let me
ask you this. You're the
lead developer at OSHA, Haiti,
have any of the young
women that you've worked with
at Kira chicks gone on
to work and software engineers?
Oh yes. We have a
very, very many of the
students who've graduated about 104
from, or our training program.
And so we've seen most
does actually join companies. We've
had some working at general
electric and then we have
some who are working at
some of the smaller startups
here in Kenya and even
SMEC in Kenya. So you
learned and Papa and even
a break, we have some
one who's working at brick.
And so we've, we love
the fact that we're seeing
the numbers increase. They might
be small, but at least
we're seeing more women getting
into like the HUD stuff,
you know, such kind of
things like being able to
actually go ahead and write
code and be brave enough
to apply for jobs as
software developers and not just
getting is a normal it
officer and all that stuff.
Yeah. That's fantastic. Well, I'm
so glad to have chatted
with you today and people
can find you on, on
Twitter. They can check out
Cura chicks, a K I
R a C H I
x.com and OSHA, Haiti, and
also roll call@rollcall.io. This is
a great application. And I
love that. It says on
that website, you didn't know
you needed this tool. Neither
did we. It is a
great tool that I think
maybe people don't realize that
they need. Yes. Very cool.
Thanks so much for chatting
with me today. Thank you
so much for having me.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.